# Weather Station
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/9MOTM9ZeHu0
#### Description:

This is my CS50x Final Project, which is a weather station made using spare electronic parts I have at my home. What this 'weather station' can do is it can measure the temperature and humidity of your immediate surroundings and display it on a LCD screen. You can also customise what text the LCD screen will display. For my case, I decided to aptly put the text 'Weather Station'.

What you will need to create this weather station would be an Arduino Uno, some jumper wires, a breadboard, a DHT22 or DHT11 sensor, and a i2c 16x2 LCD. I used the DHT22 sensor for my project as it is better than the DHT11. The DHT22 has a temperature measuring range is from -40 to +125 degrees Celsius with +-0.5 degrees accuracy, while the DHT11 temperature range is from 0 to 50 degrees Celsius with +-2 degrees accuracy.

Technically, it is possible to just do without the breadboard, however I have included the breadboard in my project as it makes the setup cleaner and more organised. I have also taped the wires together with tape in order to make it neater. This makes it clearer for other people to   follow the wire connections in the video.

In the code, you might be wondering why i decided to round off the humidity and temperature values to 1 decimal point. Technically the DHT22 should be precise and accurate enough to record data in 2 decimal points. However, as I am using the 16x2 LCD screen, it is not wide enough to display data nicely if i were to use 2 decimal points! Hence, I rounded the data to 1 decimal point instead. Also, another design change I was to change the format on how the data was displayed on the LCD screen. Initially, the data was presented like this, 'Temperature: xx deg C' and 'Humidity: xx %', on top and below respectively on the LCD. Since the LCD is only 2 units tall, it fits just nicely. However, this means that there will not be enough space to include other text, such as the current date and time. I then made a design change, with it currently showing the placeholder text 'Weather Station' and 'T: xx deg C', 'H: xx %' below it. I don't have the DS1302 clock module on hand, hence I decided to just put the text 'Weather Station' as a placeholder instead of the current date and time. This design is better than the previous one as this design provides more infomation with the same amount of space. Furthermore, text like 'Temperature' and 'Humidity' can just be shortened to its initials without affecting its understandability as the units will have given away what it actually stands for.

I have thought of some further improved variations of this weather station, such as it being powered by a solar panel. Another possible improvement is to include a DS1302 clock module to the setup, so that the weather station can also display the correct current time and date after it is powered off for a long period of time. I can also make a WiFi version in the future, implementing IOT elements such as an ESP8266, and have it supply infomation to a web application.

Overall this project has been really fun to design and make, and the satisfaction that came when everything was finally working properly was amazing.